The Yeti Java OpenGL Engine
===========================

Summary
-------

This project is a personal project of mine, so it's not really recommended for 
serious projects. I try to document it decently, so one might learn one or two things
from it. Or at learn about what nasty hacks to avoid in the future.

Looking forward to any fork! :)

Running the thing
-----------------
The project isn't very hard to build. I've left the .classpath file generated by
Eclipse in, and as you can see, it requires, by default, two libraries. The 
easiest way to get it to run is to download jogl and unzip it in a lib/ folder
that's a sibling of the res/ and src/ ones.

Of course, Eclipse isn't *required* to build the engine. You can `javac` it, no 
problem, you can use a different folder for the libs, and so on.

You can get the latest JOGL here: http://jogamp.org/deployment/jogamp-current/archive/jogamp-all-platforms.7z

The required JARs are: gluegen-rt.jar and jogl-all.jar.

Features
--------
Among the most important features implemented so far are:
 - basic Wavefront *.obj loading
 - phong lighting model (with directional, point and spot lights)
 - normal mapping
 - skyboxes and environment mapping
 - shadow mapping (for all light types - omnidirectional shadowmaps generated
 in a single pass using a geometry shader)
 - simple and axis-aligned billboarding
 - scene management
 - multipass rendering with post-processing support (right now used for FBO-based
 multisampling)

Miscellaneous things & philosophy
---------------------------------
First and foremost, this is a learning experience. I am learning OpenGL as I'm
writing this, so don't expect the engine to be in any way clean or optimized.
Some things worth noting are the major roadblocks I've hit (and overcome!)
while developing this project - for most of them, I've left some sort of "monument"
in the source code, describing the nature of the problem and how I've fixed it. I
find that by actually writing this down and then seeing it over and over again helps
you remember common mistakes that you've made and thus helps you avoid them in the
future.

I obviously don't recommend doing this in an actual serious project (that's what
bug trackers are for!), but I like to use it in small personal projects.

The code is designed to fail as often as possible. And by that I mean that whenever
it detects something that's wrong, it instantly crashes telling you what went 
wrong. It doesn't struggle to chug along at any cost. Again, for a professional
project this might not be the right technique all of the time, and you'd probably 
want to have some sort of crash recovery system in some of the cases.

License
-------
Yeti is licensed under the BSD 2-clause license.

Copyright (c) 2012-2013, Andrei Bârsan
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list
of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
 materials provided with the distribution.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, 
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE 
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED 
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The JOGL source code is mostly licensed under the New BSD 2-clause license,
however it contains other licensed material as well. See the jogl.LICENSE file for details.